Looking over the food spreadsheet, we're certainly missing a few things that are either necessary or will be extremely helpful for configuring balance.

- Extremely important: Column for whether food is ACCESSIBLE in 2.77.5 or not. Lots of disabled food we don't use.

- Important for Progression/Balance: Crafting "Steps". Just like potions list their number of steps, how many different steps does it require?
Harvesting = 1
Crafting = 1
Cooking in furnace = 1
Pressing = 1
Millstone = 1
Killing a mob = 1

(etc)

Multi-part foods should include total # of steps to get to that point.

- Somewhat Important for Progression/Balance: Rare Ingredients? y/n <-- somewhat arbitrary, but still worthwhile for singling out unique food

- Somewhat Important for Progression/Balance: Total # of ingredients

- "Availability" (?) Maybe somewhat arbitrary, but I think important to consider. Carminberries, hawthorne berries, aether berries grow ALL the time super fast, don't care about seasons. Super easy to get. Ptera wings, parasites, slime gummies, also very easy and not season restricted. Most food in the "Super Easy" availability should have some kind of downside or inefficiency, because otherwise a few stacks of them could largely compensate for other foods for lazy players.


Make Smoothies/Drinks return more quantity
Increase saturation for Smoothie vs Juice

Fruit Juice x2
Smoothie x3 decrease hunger to 1
Soda x3
nutButter x2
grits 2h 2s
nerf chowmein
buff Shrimp quinoa
Buff dairy/eggs

nerf seed soup
buff other soup


Basically, items which wouldn't make much sense being so filling, if that makes any sense. You're increasing the quality and adding just a bit of matter to a tea, but it's still a tea
so instead of just increasing the saturation and hunger value, we go horizontal, either with the well fed buff effect, more servings or new effects
So it's actually quite complex and has to be looked at on a per-case level
I'm currently implementing my recipes according to the registry of ID's from Harvescraft, basically how the items are listed in JEI
I still need a modder to make a pull request for Advanced Mortars with liquid support for some specific recipes, but apart from those, I'm going one item at a time
It's also important to note that even if a food item has a negligible difference in food value to its predecessor, its tooltip (morsel, snack, etc) indicates how long the duration of the well fed buff will last

I think that for this kind of recipes, instead of increasing the food nutrition
We should increase the amount of items it gives to 2-3